## Data 

### Description 

Real data: At the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, a study was conducted using matrix assisted laser desorption and ionization, time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) to discover potential proteomic markers of pancreatic cancer. In this study, researchers collected the blood serum samples from 139 pancreatic cancer patients and 117 normal controls and ran them on a MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer to produce a mass spectrum for each sample.  These data were preprocessed using the Cromwell pipeline (Coombes, et al. 2005 Proteomics), including baseline correction, normalization, denoising and log_2 transformation, as detailed in Koomen et al. (2005, Clinical Cancer Research).  In our analysis here, we focused on the spectral region [5000D, 8000D] of the original dataset, which includes 1659 observations per spectrum. The 256 samples in this dataset were measured in four different blocks over a span of several months, so we estimated and subtracted the block-specific mean from the preprocessed mass spectra to adjust for the block effects before performing functional quantile regression. The raw dataset, preprocessed dataset, and the block effect adjusted dataset are all provided.

Simulated data: For two simulation settings described in the paper, i.e., symmetric heavy tailed setting (i) and right skewed setting (ii), 100 replicate datasets were generated. Each replicate dataset includes simulated functions consisting of 501 observations for each of 400 subjects coming from 2 groups. For space considerations, only 1 replicate simulated dataset is provided for each setting. However, all 100 replicates are available upon request, and can be generated using the provided MATLAB script. They will also be deposited on the senior author’s github repository upon acceptance of paper.

### How to access data 

Real data: Available in the subfolder ```realdata```. The raw and preprocessed mass spectrometry data are stored as matrices in “.mat” file; the block effect adjusted dataset ready for model fitting is stored as a structure array in “.mat” file along with design matrix, spectral locations (in Daltons) and wavelet transform specifications. See the section below for how to fully reproduce this preprocesing step. 

Simulated data: Available in the subfolder ```simulations1``` and ```simulatoin2```. The simulation datasets are stored both as structure arrays in “.mat” files and matrices in “.txt” files. 

## Reproducibility

### What is to be reproduced 
All the figures in the manuscript can be reproduced by running the provided code. To reproduce Table 2 that summarizes the simulation performance for various methods, the posterior (or bootstrap) samples obtained by each approach at each considered quantile level based on each of 100 replicate datasets in each simulation setting are needed. To reproduce Figure S1-4, the posterior (or bootstrap) samples of the regression coefficients obtained by each approach at each quantile level based on the proteomics dataset are needed. For space considerations, we do not provide these posterior (or bootstrap) samples for now.  However, they can be generated using the scripts we provided, and are available upon request. They will also be deposited on the senior author’s github repository upon acceptance of paper. We also provide the script to implement the Bayesian FQR model and various alternatives on a given functional dataset and generate posterior (or bootstrap) samples, and the code to do estimation and inference on functional coefficients and generate Figure S1-4 using these posterior (or bootstrap) samples.

### How to reproduce analyses 

- Figures and tables. The MATLAB scripts “figures_and_tables.m” and “supplementary_figures.m” and the R script “supplementary_figures_1_2_3.R” in the main folder contain the code to reproduce  all of the figures in the manuscript and the supplementary. 
- Real data analysis. In the subfolder “realdata/”, the file “ProteomicsData.mat” stores the raw and preprocessed pancreatic cancer mass spectrometry data, the cancer/normal status of each of 256 subjects and the spectral locations of observations (in Daltons); the MATLAB script “realdata_preparation.m” records how to adjust for the block effect of the preprocessed data and generate the file “model.mat” which stores the adjusted mass spectra, design matrix, spectral locations and wavelet transform specifications as a structure array; the MATLAB script “realdata_modelfit.m” and R script “realdata_modelfit_bootstrap.R” record how to implement our proposed Bayesian FQR and various alternative approaches on the adjusted mass spectrometry dataset and obtain posterior (or bootstrap) samples for the quantile regression coefficient functions. We set the seed when implementing each approach, so users should obtain exactly the same posterior (and bootstrap) samples as ours by running the provided scripts.
- Simulation 1. In the subfolder “simulations1/”, the MATLAB script “data_generation.m” records how to generate the 100 replicate simulation datasets for the symmetric heavy tailed setting (i), and obtain the ground truth for the quantile regression coefficient functions characterizing the group effect for multiple quantile levels; the MATLAB script “data_modelfit.m” and R script “data_modelfit_bootstrap.R” record how to implement our proposed Bayesian FQR and alternative approaches on the simulated datasets and obtain posterior (or bootstrap) samples; the MATLAB script “data_estimation_inference_example.m” illustrates how to summarize the estimation and inference performance of each approach using posterior (or bootstrap) samples based on a simulated dataset given the ground truth.
- Simulation 2. The subfolder “simulations2/” contains the same contents for the right skewed setting (ii), and the R script “FDboost.R” which records how to implement the functional linear array model by Brockhaus et al. (2015, Statistical Modelling) on a simulated dataset in this setting to perform FQR for $$\tau=0.9$$.

## References
[1] Coombes K R, Tsavachidis S, Morris J S, et al (2005). Improved peak detection and quantification of mass spectrometry data acquired from surface - enhanced laser desorption and ionization by denoising spectra with the undecimated discrete wavelet transform. _Proteomics_, 5(16): 4107-4117.

[2] Koomen J M, Shih L N, Coombes K R, et al (2005). Plasma protein profiling for diagnosis of pancreatic cancer reveals the presence of host response proteins. _Clinical Cancer Research_, 11(3): 1110-1118.

[3] Brockhaus S, Scheipl F, Hothorn T, et al (2015). The functional linear array model. _Statistical Modelling_, 15(3): 279-300.
